Rewrite Stateful Treatment section (#300)
quicwg/ops-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-manageability.md

can associate a connection ID, if present, with a given flow, and can associate
a known flow with a new flow when when observing a packet sharing the same

> connection ID in the same direction between client and server and sharing one

Reviewer: This deletion appears to be accidental?

> connection ID in the same direction between client and server and sharing one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connection ID in the same direction between client and server and sharing one
endpoint address (IP address and port) with the known flow.
```

## Stateful Treatment of QUIC Traffic {#sec-stateful}

Stateful treatment of QUIC traffic (e.g., at a firewall or NAT middlebox) is
possible through QUIC traffic and version identification ({{sec-identifying}})
and observation of the handshake for connection confirmation ({{sec-confirm}}).
The lack of any visible end-of-flow signal ({{sec-teardown}}) means that this
state must be purged either through timers or through least-recently-used
eviction, depending on application requirements.

{{?RFC4787}} requires a timeout that is not less than 2 minutes for most UDP
traffic.  However, in practice, timers are sometimes lower, in the range of 30
to 60 seconds. In contrast, {{?RFC5382}} recommends a timeout of more than 2
hours for TCP, given that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol with well-
defined closure semantics.

> Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed to improve robustness to NAT
> rebindings, which might look like a tempting feature to further reduce the UDP
> timeout and thereby minimize state, this is not recommended.  Instead it is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed tolerate NAT rebindings, decreasing the
NAT timeout is not recommended, as it may negatively impact application performance
or incentivize endpoints to send very frequent keep-alive packets.  Instead it is
```

recommended, even when lower timers are used for other UDP traffic, to use a
timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.
While QUIC has no clear network-visible end-of-connection signal and therefore
does require timer-based state removal, the QUIC handshake indicates

> confirmation of both ends that a valid bidirectional transmission is on-going.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
confirmation by both ends of a valid bidirectional transmission.
```

## Stateful Treatment of QUIC Traffic {#sec-stateful}

Stateful treatment of QUIC traffic (e.g., at a firewall or NAT middlebox) is
possible through QUIC traffic and version identification ({{sec-identifying}})
and observation of the handshake for connection confirmation ({{sec-confirm}}).
The lack of any visible end-of-flow signal ({{sec-teardown}}) means that this
state must be purged either through timers or through least-recently-used
eviction, depending on application requirements.

{{?RFC4787}} requires a timeout that is not less than 2 minutes for most UDP
traffic.  However, in practice, timers are sometimes lower, in the range of 30
to 60 seconds. In contrast, {{?RFC5382}} recommends a timeout of more than 2
hours for TCP, given that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol with well-
defined closure semantics.

Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed to improve robustness to NAT
rebindings, which might look like a tempting feature to further reduce the UDP
timeout and thereby minimize state, this is not recommended.  Instead it is
recommended, even when lower timers are used for other UDP traffic, to use a
timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.

> 	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

While QUIC has no clear network-visible end-of-connection signal and therefore
does require timer-based state removal, the QUIC handshake indicates
confirmation of both ends that a valid bidirectional transmission is on-going.
If state is removed too early, this could lead to black-holing of incoming
packets after a short idle period. To detect this situation, a timer at the
client needs to expire before a re-establishment can happen (if at all), which
would lead to unnecessary long delays in an otherwise working connection.

> 	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Furrther, not all endpoints use routing architectures where connections will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, not all endpoints use routing architectures where connections will
```

> Furrther, not all endpoints use routing architectures where connections will
> survive a port or address change. So even when the client revives the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, not all endpoints use routing architectures where connections
will survive a port or address change. So even when the client revives the
```

connection, a NAT rebinding can cause a routing mismatch where a packet
is not even delivered to the server that might support address migration.

> 	

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

eviction, depending on application requirements.

{{?RFC4787}} requires a timeout that is not less than 2 minutes for most UDP
traffic.  However, in practice, timers are sometimes lower, in the range of 30
to 60 seconds. In contrast, {{?RFC5382}} recommends a timeout of more than 2
hours for TCP, given that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol with well-
defined closure semantics.

Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed to improve robustness to NAT
rebindings, which might look like a tempting feature to further reduce the UDP
timeout and thereby minimize state, this is not recommended.  Instead it is
recommended, even when lower timers are used for other UDP traffic, to use a
timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.
While QUIC has no clear network-visible end-of-connection signal and therefore
does require timer-based state removal, the QUIC handshake indicates
confirmation of both ends that a valid bidirectional transmission is on-going.
If state is removed too early, this could lead to black-holing of incoming
packets after a short idle period. To detect this situation, a timer at the
client needs to expire before a re-establishment can happen (if at all), which

> would lead to unnecessary long delays in an otherwise working connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
would lead to unnecessary long delays in an otherwise working connection.

```

## Stateful Treatment of QUIC Traffic {#sec-stateful}

Stateful treatment of QUIC traffic (e.g., at a firewall or NAT middlebox) is
possible through QUIC traffic and version identification ({{sec-identifying}})
and observation of the handshake for connection confirmation ({{sec-confirm}}).
The lack of any visible end-of-flow signal ({{sec-teardown}}) means that this
state must be purged either through timers or through least-recently-used
eviction, depending on application requirements.

{{?RFC4787}} requires a timeout that is not less than 2 minutes for most UDP
traffic.  However, in practice, timers are sometimes lower, in the range of 30
to 60 seconds. In contrast, {{?RFC5382}} recommends a timeout of more than 2
hours for TCP, given that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol with well-
defined closure semantics.

Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed to improve robustness to NAT
rebindings, which might look like a tempting feature to further reduce the UDP
timeout and thereby minimize state, this is not recommended.  Instead it is
recommended, even when lower timers are used for other UDP traffic, to use a

> timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.

```

## Stateful Treatment of QUIC Traffic {#sec-stateful}

Stateful treatment of QUIC traffic (e.g., at a firewall or NAT middlebox) is
possible through QUIC traffic and version identification ({{sec-identifying}})
and observation of the handshake for connection confirmation ({{sec-confirm}}).
The lack of any visible end-of-flow signal ({{sec-teardown}}) means that this
state must be purged either through timers or through least-recently-used
eviction, depending on application requirements.

{{?RFC4787}} requires a timeout that is not less than 2 minutes for most UDP
traffic.  However, in practice, timers are sometimes lower, in the range of 30
to 60 seconds. In contrast, {{?RFC5382}} recommends a timeout of more than 2
hours for TCP, given that TCP is a connection-oriented protocol with well-
defined closure semantics.

> Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed tolerate NAT rebindings, decreasing the
> NAT timeout is not recommended, as it may negatively impact application performance
> or incentivize endpoints to send very frequent keep-alive packets.  Instead it is
> recommended, even when lower timers are used for other UDP traffic, to use a
> timer of at least two minutes for QUIC traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though QUIC has explicitly been designed tolerate NAT rebindings,
decreasing the NAT timeout is not recommended, as it may negatively impact
application performance or incentivize endpoints to send very frequent
keep-alive packets. Instead it is recommended, even when lower timers are
used for other UDP traffic, to use a timer of at least two minutes for QUIC
traffic.
```
